Blog - Survicate alternatives (#8738)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/best-survicate-alternatives.mdx

---
title: 'The best Survicate alternatives & competitors, compared'
date: 2024-07-04
author:
  - lior-neu-ner
rootpage: /blog
featuredImage: >-

>   https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/posthog-alternatives/posthog-alternatives.jpeg

Reviewer: Maybe switch this out for the survey hog design?

According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/PostHog), as of June 2024, 4,661 of the top million websites deploy PostHog, which is more than the 978 that use Survicate.

#### Key features

- 💬 **Surveys:** Target surveys by event or user properties. Templates for [net promoter score (NPS)](/templates/nps-survey), [product-market fit (PMF)](/templates/pmf-survey) surveys, and more.

- 📈 **Product analytics:** Custom trends, funnels, user paths, retention analysis, and segment user cohorts. Also, direct [SQL querying](/docs/product-analytics/sql) for power users.

- 📺 **Session replays:** View exactly how users are using your site. Includes event timelines, console logs, network activity, and 90-day data retention.

- 🧪 **A/B tests:** Experiment in your app with up to nine test variations and track impact on primary and secondary metrics. Auto-calculate test duration, sample size, and statistical significance.

- 🚩 **Feature flags:** Rollout features safely with [local evaluation](/docs/feature-flags/local-evaluation) (for faster performance), JSON payloads, and instant rollbacks.

### How does PostHog compare to Survicate?

> The main differences are that Survicate supports sending surveys on more platforms and have 1-click integrations for sending survey data to other tools. PostHog doesn't yet offer surveys on mobile apps and although it supports integrations, these require basic technical setup using [webhooks](/docs/webhooks).
> 
> On the other hand, PostHog includes entire features Survicate doesn't have, like [product analytics](/product-analytics), [A/B testing](/ab-testing), and [session replays](/session-replay).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Survicate supports platforms PostHog doesn't yet, such as surveys for mobile apps. It also offers 1-click integrations for sending survey data to other tools, whereas PostHog requires some basic setup using [webhooks](/docs/webhooks).

But, while Survicate goes slightly deeper on survey features, PostHog integrates entire tools Survicate doesn't, such as [session replays](/session-replay), [product analytics](/product-analytics), and [A/B testing](/ab-testing). This makes it easier to connect survey data to real users, and real sessions.
```

3. **Pricing is transparent and scalable:** Reviewers appreciate how PostHog's pricing scales as they grow. There's a [generous free tier](/pricing). Companies eligible for [PostHog for Startups](/startups) also get $50k in additional free credits.

> #### Bottom line
> 
> For teams looking for all the tools they need to improve their products, PostHog makes for a great alternative. This is especially true for startups and scaleups thanks to it having a generous free tier.

<br />

## 3. SurveyMonkey

- **Founded:** 2017
- **Most similar to:** Hotjar
- **Typical users:** Product teams and UX researchers

![SurveyMonkey](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1718775451/posthog.com/contents/surveymonkey.webp)

### What is SurveyMonkey?

Like Survicate, SurveyMonkey is a tool which solely focuses on surveys. It has every feature you could ever need when it comes to sending surveys and collecting feedback, but it doesn't provide any of the other features that other alternatives on this list to do.

> According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Survey-Monkey), 450 of the top million websites deploy SurveyMonkey as of June 2024. This is about half of the 978 that use Survicate.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should omit this figure for SurveyMonkey? I imagine most people use it for email surveys.

Author: Hmm it makes for a good alternative given it supports the same platforms as Survicate, so I'd prefer to leave it in

> According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Survey-Monkey), 450 of the top million websites deploy SurveyMonkey as of June 2024. This is about half of the 978 that use Survicate.

Author: ```suggestion
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Heatmaps" description="Visualize where users click and interact on your site" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use SurveyMonkey?

According to [reviews on G2](https://www.g2.com/products/surveymonkey/reviews), customers choose SurveyMonkey because:

1. **It's easy to use:** Reviewers note how easy SurveyMonkey is to set up and use. This means they can go from idea to actionable learnings quickly.

1. **It supports many integrations:** Reviewers value how easy it is to integrate survey answers into existing workflows and apps.

3. **It has pre-built reporting tools:** Reviewers appreciate that they can easily interpret results and gain actionable insights from the collected data.

> #### Bottom line
> 
> SurveyMonkey is a solid option if all you're looking for is surveys. SurveyMonkey charges per team seat while Survicate charges per survey response, so it's best to compare their pricing to see which will be cheaper for you.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<br />

```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Heatmaps" description="Visualize where users click and interact on your site" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Lucky Orange?

According to G2 reviews, customers use Lucky Orange because:

1. **It's easy to use:** Lucky Orange has a simple UI, which makes it easy to analyze user behavior and identify issues with websites.

2. **It helps them improve conversion:** Customers are mostly using Lucky Orange to optimize landing pages and e-commerce checkout flows.

3. **It doesn't impact page speed:** Users report Lucky Orange has negligible impact on website performance, which they value highly.

> #### Bottom line
> 
> Lucky Orange is ideal for small businesses owners who want actionable insights without much effort, though its streamlined interface may be too limiting for larger teams who want more powerful tools.

<br />

## 7. Crazy Egg

- **Founded:** 2006
- **Similar to:** Lucky Orange, Hotjar
- **Typical users:** Marketers and UX designers

> ![Lucky Orange](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/clarity-alternatives/luckyorange.png)

Reviewer: Wrong screenshot

- 📺 **Session replays:** View exactly how users are using your site. Includes event timelines, console logs, network activity, and 90-day data retention.

- 🧪 **A/B tests:** Experiment in your app with up to nine test variations and track impact on primary and secondary metrics. Auto-calculate test duration, sample size, and statistical significance.

- 🚩 **Feature flags:** Rollout features safely with [local evaluation](/docs/feature-flags/local-evaluation) (for faster performance), JSON payloads, and instant rollbacks.

### How does PostHog compare to Survicate?

PostHog and Survicate have similar capabilities when it comes to surveys but differ on other features. PostHog includes entire features Survicate doesn't have, like product analytics, A/B testing, and session replays. 

On the other hand, Survicate supports sending surveys on more platforms, such as mobile app, emails, and shareable-links. PostHog doesn't yet offer surveys on mobile – although all of its other features are available on apps.

> PostHog and Survicate both offer integrations so that you can send your survey data to your other tools. However, PostHog's integrations requires basic technical setup using [webhooks](/docs/webhooks), whereas Survicates integrations are all 1-click.

Reviewer: Would be good to tighten this up a little. Also, feels contradictory to say we have similar survey features then follow that up with a bunch of survey features that are unique to Survicate.

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Multi-channel surveys" description="Send surveys in mobile apps, email, links" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Integrations" description="Send survey data to all your tools" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Session replay" description="Watch real users on your site; discover friction points" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Heatmaps" description="Visualize where users click and interact on your site" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Product analytics" description="Track trends, funnels, user paths, and retention" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="A/B testing" description="Test changes and analyze their impact" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Feature flags" description="Deploy features safely with targeting and percentage rollouts" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />

> </ComparisonTable>

Reviewer: I think the comparison table needs to go deeper on actual survey features given Survicate's focus on that. This feels a bit too self-serving to focus on the things we do, rather than honestly comparing our survey features.

> </ComparisonTable>

Reviewer: The comparison table needs to go deeper on actual survey features given Survicate's focus on that, imo. This feels a bit too self-serving to focus on the things we do, rather than honestly comparing our survey features.

3. **Pricing is transparent and scalable:** Reviewers appreciate how PostHog's pricing scales as they grow. There's a [generous free tier](/pricing). Companies eligible for [PostHog for Startups](/startups) also get $50k in additional free credits.

> #### Bottom line
> 
> For teams looking for all the tools they need to improve their products, PostHog makes for a great alternative. This is especially true for startups and scaleups thanks to it having a generous free tier.

<br />

## 2. Sprig

- **Founded:** 2017
- **Most similar to:** Hotjar
- **Typical users:** Product teams and UX researchers

![sprig](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/hotjar-alternatives/sprig.png)

### What is Sprig?

[Sprig](/blog/best-sprig-alternatives) is a user insights tool that combines surveys and session replays with AI analysis. Sprig works slightly differently than other tools as it links surveys and session replays together in what it calls studies, normally triggered by specific user events.

> According to [data from BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Sprig) (June 2024), Sprig is used on 521 of the top 1 million websites, though this figure likely doesn't include apps that aren't accessible via the open web. It's used by large, B2C companies such as PayPal, Coinbase, and Robinhood.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
According to [data from BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Sprig) (June 2024), Sprig is used on 521 of the top one million websites, though this figure likely doesn't include apps that aren't accessible via the open web. It's used by large, B2C companies such as PayPal, Coinbase, and Robinhood.
```

2. **It's easy to use:** Reviewers note how easy Sprig is to set up and use. This means they can go from idea to actionable learnings quickly.

3. **It has pre-built reports and templates:** Users like the comprehensive documentation and the fact there are numerous templates they can immediately apply and adapt to their needs.

> #### Bottom line
> 
> Sprig is a good option for product teams who want to do in-depth analysis on user journeys within products, especially compared to other Survicate alternatives like Lucky Orange that are more focused on e-commerce and small business users.

<br />

## 3. SurveyMonkey

- **Founded:** 2017
- **Most similar to:** Hotjar
- **Typical users:** Product teams and UX researchers

![SurveyMonkey](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1718775451/posthog.com/contents/surveymonkey.webp)

### What is SurveyMonkey?

Like Survicate, SurveyMonkey is a tool which solely focuses on surveys. It has every feature you could ever need when it comes to sending surveys and collecting feedback, but it doesn't provide any of the other features that other alternatives on this list to do.

> According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Survey-Monkey), 450 of the top million websites deploy Pendo as of June 2024. This is about half of the 878 that use Survicate.

Reviewer 2: 'Pendo' here should be SurveyMonkey. Also worth checking the number is right

> According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Survey-Monkey), 450 of the top million websites deploy Pendo as of June 2024. This is about half of the 878 that use Survicate.

Author: ```suggestion
According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Survey-Monkey), 450 of the top million websites deploy SurveyMonkey as of June 2024. This is about half of the 878 that use Survicate.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Heatmaps" description="Visualize where users click and interact on your site" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Product analytics" description="Track trends, funnels, user paths, and retention" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="A/B testing" description="Test changes and analyze their impact" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Feature flags" description="Deploy features safely with targeting and percentage rollouts" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use SurveyMonkey?

According to [reviews on G2](https://www.g2.com/products/surveymonkey/reviews), customers choose SurveyMonkey because:

1. **It's easy to use:** Reviewers note how easy SurveyMonkey is to set up and use. This means they can go from idea to actionable learnings quickly.

1. **It supports many integrations:** Reviewers value how easy it is to integrate survey answers into existing workflows and apps.

> 3. **It has pre-built reporting tool:** Reviewers appreciate that they can easily interpret results and gain actionable insights from the collected data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **It has pre-built reporting tools:** Reviewers appreciate that they can easily interpret results and gain actionable insights from the collected data.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="A/B testing" description="Test changes and analyze their impact" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Feature flags" description="Deploy features safely with targeting and percentage rollouts" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Hotjar?

According to G2 reviews, users are fans of Hotjar because:

1. **Insights on user behavior:** Hotjar captures what users are doing, where their attention is going, and how they are spending their time. Users love the insights they get with Hotjar's tools.

2. **Simple for non-technical users:** Hotjar is easy to set up. Non-technical roles like designers, marketers, and product managers find it simple to use. The visuals do a good job of making data clear.

3. **Heatmaps and scrollmaps:** Seeing clicks and scroll depth down works well and creates actionable insights for design, marketing, and content teams. Helps improve UX and page designs.

> #### Bottom line
> 

> > Hotjar is a good option for product and marketing teams who want to do in-depth analysis on user journeys within web apps. However, it's best to look elsewhere if you need to support on other channels.

Reviewer 2: is 'if you need to support on other channels' correct? or is the 'to' a typo/is there a word missing?

> > Hotjar is a good option for product and marketing teams who want to do in-depth analysis on user journeys within web apps. However, it's best to look elsewhere if you need to support on other channels.

Author: ```suggestion
> Hotjar is a good option for product and marketing teams who want to do in-depth analysis on user journeys within web apps. However, it's best to look elsewhere if you need to support on other platforms.
```

<br />

## 5. Pendo

- **Founded:** 2013
- **Similar to:** PostHog, Hotjar
- **Typical users:** Product managers and customer success teams

![Pendo](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-fullstory-alternatives/pendo.png)

### What is Pendo?

[Pendo](/blog/posthog-vs-pendo) is a product experience platform that offers surveys, session replays, product analytics, in-app guides, and product validation tools. It's primarily used by product managers and customer success teams.

> According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Pendo), 3,166 of the top million websites deploy Pendo as of June 2024. This is much more than the 878 that use Survicate.

Reviewer 2: for Survicate, we say '878' and '978'... which is it?

> According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Pendo), 3,166 of the top million websites deploy Pendo as of June 2024. This is much more than the 878 that use Survicate.

Author: ```suggestion
According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Pendo), 3,166 of the top million websites deploy Pendo as of June 2024. This is much more than the 978 that use Survicate.
```

![Lucky Orange](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/clarity-alternatives/luckyorange.png)

### What is Lucky Orange?

Lucky Orange is a simple website analyisis tool. It's designed for e-commerce websites and includes surveys, session replays, and heatmaps. It also offers built-in form analytics, live chat, and announcements widgets that help store owners improve their conversion.

According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Lucky-Orange), as of June 2024, 3,817 of the top million websites use Lucky Orange.

#### Key features

- 📋 **Surveys:** Get real feedback from your customers about your website, product, and ideas. 

- 📺 **Session replay:** Watch how real users navigate your website and figure out what is stopping them from converting.

- 🔥 **Heatmaps:** See where users click, move, and scroll to find out what areas drive conversion.

- 📊 **Conversion funnels:** Figure out where you are losing customers in your funnels.

- 👤 **Visitor profiles:** See all of the data you have about a specific user and group users into segments. 

### How does Lucky Orange compare to Survicate?

> When it comes to surveys, Lucky Orange does many of the same things that Survicate. However, it's designed specifically for optimizing conversion on e-commerce websites, so doesn't support any of the other platforms that Survicate does. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When it comes to surveys, Lucky Orange does many of the same things as Survicate. However, it's designed specifically for optimizing conversion on e-commerce websites, so doesn't support any of the other platforms that Survicate does. 
```

</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Lucky Orange?

According to G2 reviews, customers use Lucky Orange because:

1. **It's easy to use:** Lucky Orange has a simple UI, which makes it easy to analyze user behavior and identify issues with websites.

2. **It helps them improve conversion:** Customers are mostly using Lucky Orange to optimize landing pages and e-commerce checkout flows.

3. **It doesn't impact page speed:** Users report Lucky Orange has negligible impact on website performance, which they value highly.

> #### Bottom line
> 
> Lucky Orange is ideal for small businesses owners who want actionable insights without much effort, though its streamlined interface may be too limiting for larger teams who want more powerful tools.

<br />

## 7. Crazy Egg

- **Founded:** 2006
- **Similar to:** Lucky Orange, Hotjar
- **Typical users:** Marketers and UX designers

![Lucky Orange](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/clarity-alternatives/luckyorange.png)

### What is Crazy Egg?

> Crazy Egg is a heatmap and optimization platform tool for small business owners and marketers. A big user group is e-commerce businesses who run Shopify stores. 

Reviewer 2: can something be a platform and a tool?

> Crazy Egg is a heatmap and optimization platform tool for small business owners and marketers. A big user group is e-commerce businesses who run Shopify stores. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Crazy Egg is a heatmap and optimization platform tool for small business owners and marketers. It's popular with e-commerce businesses that run Shopify stores. 
```
